# Professional Self-Assessment
The purpose of this professional self-assessment is to summarize my experience in the Computer Science program here at SNHU and also to introduce the artifacts that show my true strengths within the program.

It’s taken a few tries to finally find what I wanted to do with my career. When I first started college, I wanted to be an architect. After one semester, it became clear that it just wasn’t for me. The next semester I decided to pursue occupational therapy. I’m aware that it’s a complete 180, but at that point I felt like that’s what I was meant to do. This may sound a bit cliche but the reason I chose that field was because I wanted to help people. About two years down the road, I ran into some financial issues and ended up having to relocate back home. I decided to take some time off from school to get a job and save up to continue at some point down the road. Fast forward three years later and I decided it was time to get back into school. A few of my family members are already in the field and one of them asked me if I considered computer science. It was never something that I considered so I thought about it for a while and figured out that I do like to deal with technology and it’s a growing industry. After doing my research, I enrolled in the IT program with a concentration in software development. Once they offered the Computer Science degree, although hesitant at first, I eventually switched to that with encouragement from my husband. I like being able to create different things and not just troubleshooting all the time. There have been days where I question if I’m even in the right field or if this is something that I can do. But throughout it all, I’ve looked at my progress and I’m proud of the progress I’ve made. 

Throughout my time at SNHU, there are so many useful ideas and skills that I’ve learned about, but there are a select few that stand out. One of the classes I really appreciated and hope to someday put into more use was DAD-220. In this course I was able to learn about SQL. The concept of being able to create and make changes to a database were so fascinating to me. It also became more of an interest when the program I was using at work helped me understand more about the subject. 

Collaboration within a team was something I was extremely thankful to learn about. Before starting in the program, we all assume programming is what it sounds like. We never stop to think about the process of software development. CS-250 helped to learn about the different roles of agile testing. It helped to see how every single team member depends on each other in order to make a project work efficiently. 

In CS-260, we made a travel website with different locations. This helped me understand data structures and algorithms because programs would cease to function without these. Data structures hold all the information so we’re not going through writing unnecessary code over and over again. Algorithms are they to basically tell the program how it should function. Without these two, we would have a much harder time when developing a program. 

I know I can’t go into detail on every single course I’ve taken, but I’ve learned a lot from all of them. I’ve learned all the different languages such as Java, Python, C++, MongoDB and many more. I’m thankful I got to learn the basics of them all because if I were to ever come across them in the future, I will be able to recognize them.

For this project, I chose three artifacts that showcase my skills the best. The first one was a pyramid that I created when I was in CS-330. The main objective was to enhance the pyramid and create a floor for it as well. The pyramid started out as an ordinary brick pyramid. But when I enhanced it, the floor was now also rotating and the pyramid itself had a light flashing across it and was also fully animated. The next artifact I chose was a basic calculator. I created this on my own and it’s written in Java. It starts out as a basic two function calculator to add and subtract numbers. I then enhanced it by adding multiplication and division. My third and final artifact was a database of different animals in a zoo that I created myself. I didn’t want to use data from just anywhere, so I designed it myself and was able to create the database and tables. I was also able to update any entries and add more to the list. I like to think of myself as a highly creative person. That’s something that I’ve told myself throughout this entire process as well as throughout this course. These three artifacts that chose showcase my skills to their best ability. I love the idea of being able to take something simple and improving it or actually creating something from scratch. It’s the freedom to make and build anything we can dream of that made me want to pursue this degree. 


